If we look more closely at how we
work with the entire area of project
management knowledge, precisely
from the point of view of the process
approach, then after we have
determined, actually, the overall
content of the project management
process, we can decompose or
divide into separate
components by functional
areas of management the
entire management process.
In other words, we can look
at the individual components of
project management in such a way
that we have a double division
of all that cube of knowledge
or project management content.
On the one hand, we divide this cube into
5 stages of the management process,
and on the other hand, we divide
it into several functional areas.
Here on the next slide you can see
an example of dividing the project
management process
by functional areas.
This example is taken from the
International Project Management Association
methodology and in particular
from the document called International
Competence Baseline ICB.
And this approach is reflected
in the national requirements
of competence of the states that
are part of the international association
for project management, including
the Russian national requirements,
approximately adhere
to this division in functional
areas.
If we consider some other national
standards, such as the US National
Standard Project Management Body
of Knowledge, abbreviated PMBOK
USA, which was developed by the Project
Management Institute, then
there is a division of project
management of the entire box of this
is done in such a way that
it is divided into 9 component
parts.
From the perspective of the realities
of Russian business and Russian characteristics
of project management, this approach
of dividing into 9 parts of the entire
project management box is not always
justified, since in the Russian realities
of project management there
are separate components
that do not include these
9 parts.
Thus, if we apply the 1 in 1 PMI methodology
of the US, we see that there is
no full coverage of the project
management process in our
Russian specific conditions.
As for the application of the approach
of the International Project Management
Association, here we see that the
situation is more systematic
and more effective for the Russian
reality of project management.
So, what is the functional
area of project management?
What is this functional area?
Here on the slide you see that it is
primarily the management
of the project area, then the management
of the project by time parameters,
sometimes they say that time
management in the project.
But it is more correct to call
this area project management
by time parameters.
The next functional area is project
value management or project
value analysis, then quality
management, human resource
management, project
interaction management,
risk management, supply
and contract management,
project safety
management, change
management, integration
management.
And in some individual specific
cases, other areas of management,
other functional areas are
used in specific types
of business.
In our course, we will briefly examine
all of the above-listed functional
areas, and we will begin by
considering the management of
the project subject area.
The management of the project subject
area is also understood differently in
different methodologies, in different
approaches, but in terms of content
it is the same.
For example, in the approach of
the U.S. Project Management Institute,
PMI, PMBOK, this area is called
project content management.
But in international terminology,
this area is called the management
of the subject area, well, we will
stick to this terminology.
In general, this function, this
functional area can be considered
as a process of the overall
project management process.
And then we can take this functional
area too to break down
into 5 stages.
The stage of initiation, the stage
of planning, the stage of organization
of control of the management of the
project subject area, analysis
and regulation and completion of
the management of the project subject area.
As I said before, any
functional area of project management
we will consider
from this methodological
point of view.
We divide this functional
area into 5 stages.
This will allow us to consider
the overall box as we say, or
the overall scope of the project
management discipline in terms
of dividing it into a
functional area.
So, let us briefly look at the content
of the subject area management.
As I said before, the initiation of the
project begins with the fact that we formulate
the goal of the project, clarify the goal
of the project.
At the same time, this process occurs
not only within the group
initiating the project, not only
by one, say, initiator.
But this process extends to all potential
participants of the project,
individuals and legal entities.
That is, in principle, all
the steakholders or key participants
of this future project are still
taking part in the initiation
process, more precisely
in the project management
process in the management
of the subject area.
This means that in order to really
minimize some weaknesses, weaknesses
of planning the organization
of the project implementation
in the subject area, we must first
of all agree on the purpose
of the project.
Why is the project needed?
Who needs him?
Why is he needed?
What will we get from
the project?
What will be the impact of achieving
the project's objectives?
All these global strategic issues are
considered in the first stage of the
management process of the
subject area, namely at the initiation
stage.
Naturally, if we start carefully
analyzing all expectations, all participants
of the future project, then we must
carefully consider, and what
can be the real motives for the
participation of these legal entities,
individuals in the project.
This can all be attributed
to the pre-project analysis, and this is
also part of the initiation stage.
If we carefully consider what
are the typical motives of participation
of different key actors, for example,
the customer and the performer,
then we will see that formally
they may coincide, and in fact
they may differ significantly.
Typically, the formal agreement of the
project's purpose is recorded in
some documents, for example, in such documents
as a contract or a contract between
the customer and the general
contractor and the contractor.
And in these documents there is a necessarily
item that fixes that the
subject of the contract or contract
is something, something,
something.
At this formal legal level, the
purpose of the project is
agreed.
But in addition to the formal agreement
on the purpose of the project,
we must also conduct an internal, in essence,
agreement on the purpose of the project
or the motives of participation, at
least to study and analyze the different
motives of participation of different
team members or individuals and
legal entities that will participate
in the project.
Thus, in the stage of initiation of the
subject area or management of the subject
area, we must explore what are the
true internal motives of the
participation of individuals
and legal entities in the project.
We have to study this.
This can all be attributed
to a pre-project survey, as
I said.
And from this point of view it
is clear that the typical motives
for participation in the customer's
project are reduced to the fact
that the customer, in essence,
wants to get this product or service
that meets the requirements of the
technical task, corresponds
to the project-related documentation
on quality, quantity,
on its functions.
It must comply with our planned
calculations and parameters
that are present in this
documentation.
As for the contractor and the
general contractor, he is not always
motivated to do so in full, in
full accordance with the documentation,
the full list of functions
and the quality parameters
of the project, product or service
results are of interest
to the general contractor
or the contractor.
This was often observed in the realities
of project activities during the
restructuring, when the
performer approached formally.
And its main motivation was to
get the maximum profit with
the minimum cost.
Here is the typical motivation, participation
in projects of performers, contractors.
And if I impotify the image of
the employer, then I have to understand
with whom I am dealing.
This is the characteristic of project activities.
I need to understand what a project
is and what a project activity is.
And then it will be easier for me to study, and
what are the true internal motives of participation
in the project of the performer.
After examining these circumstances, I
will formulate the main provisions of the
contract or contract with this participant
in a slightly different way.
With the contractor, the contractor, the
general contractor, the subcontractor
and so on.
Naturally, in such a situation,
I pay special attention to clear
fixation, unambiguous fixation.
The characteristics of the result of the
project, those parameters that describe
the product or service.
I clearly describe those criteria for the
successful implementation of the project.
And indicators, and the assumptions
of these indicators, by which we
will consider the success of the project.
If we talk about the specific management
of the subject area of a particular
project, then usually all these parameters
are laid down in the so-called
document program and test
methodology.
This is shortened to PIM, program and
test methodology.
And we already at the stage of
initiation allocate the resource
in this direction in such a way
that we can clearly fix in this document,
in PIMs, these key characteristics.
What we will have on the output after the
completion of the project, is precisely
on the key parameters characterizing
the outcome of the project, by the
product or service.
And here it is interesting to note that
there are different approaches, but
in any case the positive experience
of project activities shows that we must
clearly approach in this stage, in
the stage of initiation of the management
of the subject area.
Thus, to get away from multi-
value, get away from
ambiguity, go to unambiguity
and clear fixation of these
basic parameters.
If we carefully and qualitatively,
professionally work out this component
stage of initiation, then we
can avoid significant sources
of conflict, risks and, naturally,
thus increase the effectiveness
of the project.
I will briefly give an example
of how we work in the initiation
stage, so that we can really
clearly describe what we will
get after the project,
in terms of a clear definition
of the product or
service parameters.
For example, if we have a project
to create an electronic document system
of turnover, and in this project
we have a module, let's
say, a office module.
It is a software product.
This module allows referents,
secretaries to increase productivity
and improve the quality
of work.
Formally, we can clearly
define that this module must work
in such a way as to ensure
in the field, as we say, conditions,
in real conditions of operation
of the given product, continuous
operation with maximum load,
that is, using this module
office by the maximum
of users or secretaries
of referents.
If, let's say, we have
a maximum number of 20 users
in the organization, then
we take and investigate
what the maximum load of
this office module will
be with the maximum number
of users in real
conditions.
And we determine which parameters
require the description of the work
of this module will characterize us
standard and non-standard mode,
successful or unsuccessful mode
of work.
In the section of project quality
management, when considering
the functional area of project quality
management, we will return to this example
and there we will consider more
carefully how to qualitatively
determine the success of a
particular site or module, in
this case the module of the project
office for the development and
implementation of the project management
system.
We are already in the initiation stage
allocating the resource and thinking in that direction.
This is as regards general
strategic approaches, determining
the feasibility of the project and
determining the conditions for the
successful execution of the project
as a whole.
After the initiation stage
we move to the planning stage of
the management of the subject area
and at this stage we develop the
main documents that describe
the general design of the project,
which regulate the content of the
project, that is, specifically
a list of works, tasks that we
must perform.
To reach the goal and the
project's successful outcome.
We will look at this
stage further.
The next stage is the organization
and control of the subject area.
This stage is very important
in terms of managing
the project directly.
And here it is very important that moment,
and how we will control
those planned activities that
we have already launched,
which are going on.
How we will organize feedback
and how we will then look
at how different our
planned indicators are.
The situation we planned from
the actual actual situation.
In real business, we usually
compare the plan and the fact.
These basic approaches are
used in the stage of organization and
control of project management.
And how we will organize and
control what methods, technologies
and tools we will use.
This is all determined
in the previous stage.
In the planning stage.
At the outcome of the planning
stage, we already get clearly
defined tools, methods, technologies
that we will use further.
The meaning and content of all these
activities.
Organization of them, it occurs in the
next phase, in the implementation phase
or organization and control of
the management of the subject area.
Here, from the point of view of management,
from the point of view of project
management, the organization of
feedback is very important.
That is, the organization of such a
connection, when we organize the entire
process on the subject area by
management processes or management,
we start the execution of work, tasks,
activities we begin to carry out.
And then we must have information
about how progress is going,
how this or that work, this or that
task, this or that event develops.
We need to have the technology,
the tools, to really get
objective information, to get
it in time, and in some cases
to be able to get it selectively
at any time when we need
it, or when it is needed
by senior management
or auditors.
It is not very easy, in
some cases it is a serious
problem to organize
a truly objective
feedback.
If we consider in general what is
the project management process, we
see that first of all we must fix
the planning parameters of
a particular event or
the planning parameters of another
phenomenon, some planning
parameters, tasks and work
in this project.
As a rule, we have key
parameters are the time of
work, then the budget that
we spend on the work, labor
costs, human resources, intellectual
resources, material
and technical base and
other resources that
we plan to spend on the
work.
We have planned indicators.
On the other hand, we are beginning
to perform, we have already gone through
the process of implementation of this
work and we are approaching the completion
of this work and at the point of completion
of the work we can clearly assess
what we actually spent on time,
on the budget, on labor
costs, on the material
and technical base, on other
resources in general.
Compare the planned indicators and
actual indicators.
Thus, we see that for quality
project management to efficiently
manage the project
we need quality planning
indicators.
Very qualitative planning and qualitative
indicators of the actual
state of affairs in the project
That is, both the first assessment
and the second assessment, they
must have the minimum error, they
must be verified, or in other
words, they must correspond
to reality, especially as
regards the assessment of
the actual state.
And here we see that a lot depends
on how we shape the processes
of interaction, for
example, in the team, how
much we trust our team members,
how much we trust the tools and
technologies, this assessment
of the actual state
of affairs in the project.
This is what our main arguments
go when considering the reasons.
Why do we often find that the actual
state of affairs in the project
is different from what we, for
example, have in the reports?
We see that when considering the area
of management of the subject part
we are one way or another connected
with other areas.
And here we see that
when we really consider this
part of the process we must consider
how it is all related in general
to the overall process.
And again we return to our common
systemic approach and see that it
is impossible to take a separate
component part in a real
project, cut it out and consider
it separately.
As a result, we will come to the fact
that we get parameters of consideration
and analysis that are different from reality.
Why is it?
Because this part that we have articulated,
that we have cut out and consider
separately, it actually lives,
as we say, and is an integral
part of the common phenomenon,
the common event.
It is not possible to say that after
studying the parameters of the frog
heart, when we take and prepare this
frog, we cut out the frog heart,
then look at it on the preparation
table, fix the parameters of this
heart and we will argue that these
parameters fully correspond to reality.
No, we must understand that after the
breakdown process, as we say,
or the separation, or after the process
of separating some of the
parameters of the object,
the research of the control
object will change.
The same is used when considering
the area of management of the subject
part of the project.
This cannot be considered separately.
If we are engaged in considering the
management of the subject area, we
must remember that it is all interrelated.
If we change something in the
substance of the project, it is
clear that this change can affect
the change in time management,
that is, time can change.
A resource may change, for example,
if we change something in the
object essence of the project,
it can result in a change in
the composition of the team or in
the functions of the team members,
that is, it will affect the
subject functional area, which we
call human resource management
or labor resources management.
This will also affect the functional
area of quality management,
cost management, risk management,
and so on.
That is, using such a method,
a differentiated method, a method
of analysis, we must always
remember that this method has
negative aspects and we must
remember this.
We must remember that everything in
project management is interrelated and
when considering a particular area we
must take these connections into account.
If we return to the stage
of organization and control of the
subject area management, then
here the main method is, as I have
already said, the method of
control by compiling reports,
removing the current key
parameters characterizing
one or another work, task,
one or another product
or subproduct, service.
And all this is organized through
the creation of feedback.
In project management, feedback
is divided into negative and
negative.
Negative feedback leads
to stabilization of
the situation.
That is, if we have a planned indicator
and this indicator in the process
of implementing the project is a
certain analytical development,
can be described by an analytical
function, then the actual
state may not coincide with
our planned indicators and
we should at any time be able
to determine the difference
between the plan and the fact.
If we have a difference, the difference
between plan and fact increases, then the
organization of feedback and
negative connection leads to the fact
that the function of this difference
argument must be reduced.
That is, if the difference argument
increases, we must organize
such feedback to affect the
subprocess in the direction
of the minimum deviation
from the plan.
That is, bring this parameter to
the same planned indicators.
This is the essence of the organization
of feedback and negative communication.
Positive feedback is used when, when
the difference or difference
between plan and fact increases,
we bring the system to a state
where the plan and fact increases
even more at the next moment.
That is, with the increase of the argument,
the function increases even more.
This is called positive
feedback.
Positive feedback, as a rule,
leads to sharp changes,
can lead to revolutionary
changes, to leaps.
And use this connection must be
very and very careful.
As the saying goes, think seven times,
measure seven times before
using this connection.
Positive feedback can, if insufficient
analysis of the consequences
of its application, lead to significant
negative consequences, and
sometimes to the complete collapse
of the project.
That is, you can't use this
tool as a toy, to battle,
as we say, with it.
We need to analyze very carefully
what will happen if we apply
this technology.
As for negative feedback, it
is very effective and is essentially
used consciously or unconsciously
in many successful relationships
to bring the project into
the area of successful
implementation.
According to the key parameters, we must
dynamically draw out these indicators in such
a way that they are in the area of successful
implementation of the project.
This is all done through
reporting.
Reporting in project management can
be of different types.
There are usually two main types of reporting.
This is dynamic reporting and
retrospective reporting.
Dynamic reporting, it is organized
in such a way that we must receive
information dynamically during
the execution of the project or,
as we say, during the life cycle
of the project with a certain window,
with the importance, for example,
daily or weekly or once
a month we must receive reports
on the state of affairs on
a particular job, a particular
task.
Retrospective reporting, it implies the
fact that the requirement of a
higher management or project
implementation conditions, when we need
to make an overview of the entire state
of the project from its point of initiation
to the current complete report throughout
the time of implementation
of the project to the present day.
We must be prepared and have the
technology, the tools that
will allow to give the management
or the auditor a complete report.
This reporting system is usually
called retrospective reporting.
In terms of tracking the dynamics
of project performance or, as
we usually say, in terms of
progress, project development.
This term is taken from English
literature, but it is already
used in our business, in our environment.
We usually use a dynamic type
of reporting.
Reporting is usually used to
focus on the main duration of the
typical projects or the main mass
of projects that are implemented
in the portfolio of the
enterprise.
We have already considered
this issue in part and now we will
look at how to organize
and implement dynamic weekly
reporting for an example.
Here you need to take into
account the features of doing business,
and the features of the project implementation
conditions, the features of
the team, up to the features of
individual individuals, team
members who participate in the
project.
The practice of reporting in the
Russian business shows that the
most popular weekly reporting
with the reporting point on Monday.
Typically, the management
of the enterprise, the
CEO usually holds
on Monday weekly so-called
planners, where heads
of divisions or heads
of complex priority projects
report.
In this situation, the quality
of reporting and project management
cannot be ensured at the maximum.
Especially as far as our
Russian reality is concerned,
it really happens that usually,
he doesn't remember exactly
what happened next week.
Why is it?
Because, let's say, if the
problem in the project arose on
a Tuesday or Monday of the
previous week, and the working
week ends on a Friday, then there
were still weekends, Saturday, Sunday.
Considering our characteristics,
the characteristics of the Russian character,
we know that the period
of Saturday-Sunday is usually such that
we relax and do not very clearly
and unambiguously remember the details
that preceded this period.
If the reporting is built
on this principle of weekly
schedules, that is, the main
emphasis is on oral reporting,
on the meeting, and so on,
then the situation is quite,
as we say, prone to chaos.
And not clear, but the organization of
the information that corresponds to the
actual state of affairs in the project.
Let us take a typical situation for example.
10h00 to
The Director-General is planning
to conduct a report or, as
we say, a planner by this time.
Usually even such an event is
formally called “five minutes.”
Within 5 minutes 10 all executives, including
the executives of important projects,
are in the general director's reception
room, and the secretary
10.00 asks everyone to go to
the general director.
The reporting process begins.
This procedure usually takes not 5
minutes, but more.
Sometimes it happens that another member
of the team calls at 11 a.m. and where is the manager?
He is 5 minutes from the director.
At 12 a.m. where is he?
We understand that this situation
leads to growing distrust of the leadership.
To the fact that all members of the
team and the team inside accumulate
some kind of distrust in general to
this business process.
And it is clear that if we talk about
a design professional approach,
then we should call things
by their names.
This is first, and secondly, we should
not engage in self-deception
and deceive others.
That is, if we are talking about
5 minutes, it means 10-0-0, 10-0-5.
It is 5 minutes.
All the rest is different.
If we talk about a meeting, it
is usually 20 minutes.
If the event lasts 3 hours, it
is no longer a meeting, it is
a seminar.
Things must be called by their names.
The meeting is prepared in such a way
that the agenda is forwarded
in advance.
All participants of this event
are notified in advance
who will speak, what problem
we will discuss, what needs
to be solved.
And all participants of this event, going
to the meeting, already know what it is about
and actually have already prepared their
opinion.
The event itself is reduced only to the fact
that after consulting to agree
on the opinion of each participant,
take into account his comment.
In efficiently operating
enterprises, where the process of business
is effectively delivered,
the meeting takes place
very quickly.
And in fact the organizer of this meeting,
the coordinator or administrator,
he, going to the meeting,
already has a draft protocol
and a draft decision.
This proposal is only being adjusted at the meeting.
Of course, the total
labor costs can be small.
20 minutes is the maximum.
If we calculate the actual
labor costs of such events, which
we call meetings, and they
can last 3 hours, then we can
have 30 people or 50
people present at the meeting.
And that is usually all top managers.
Having calculated the cost of each
resource, each of these top
managers, we come to the conclusion
that such activities are monstrously
costly.
This leads to the fact that our project
is also decreasing in efficiency.
We must consider what
technologies we use when
organizing negative feedback,
when organizing
dynamic reference.
Let us return to our example.
All project managers, heads
of functional units
are invited to the CEO,
and the CEO begins to
consider the problems that
have formed over the past
period, that is, over
the previous week.
At the same time, a specific question
is asked, let's say, to me, as
the project manager, and what happened
there at the end of Monday in the
reporting period?
I start to think quickly, remember
what happened there.
And I initially had a hard setup
given to the fact that I have
a limited time resource, that is,
I have to quickly remember all
the details, analyze and so on.
I have not yet fully remembered what
it was about.
And here comes the next question.
What specifically do you propose
to solve this problem?
Again, I am under the press of
lack of time, under very strict
restriction, I must make a proposal,
and constructive such, to
take the situation out of the
crisis, solve the problem and
continue to go within the framework
of the planned parameters.
Naturally, with such a
tiny resource, time, I can
give a not quite balanced proposal.
And, as a rule, we observe such
a situation that after the
meeting with the general director, many
managers, coming out, think,
behold, I was dragged in the tongue,
this is what to say.
How to break this crap now?
Very difficult.
Who is to blame in such a situation?
Who has constructed such a dynamic
reporting system that is laid as
the basis of management, the basis
of project management?
We understand that in this situation,
above all, the top
managers, the CEO are to blame.
Why is it?
Because it was how he organized
the reporting system.
He put his immediate colleagues,
executives, project
managers, managers in a situation
where they are unable
to propose constructive, reasonable
measures that would effectively
solve the current problems
and effectively move
towards completion
of projects and achieving
their results.
If we consider the experience of
more successful business options,
the experience of those organizations
where an efficiently operating project
management system has been developed
and implemented, we will see several
other options for implementing
dynamic reporting.
Usually, when organizing
weekly reports, we analyze
the overall situation, we use
our resources, we use our
knowledge, technology,
methods and take on the weapon
of what will be most effective.
For example, knowledge of personality
psychology leads to the fact that
it is most optimal to build dynamic
reporting in such a way that
reports are provided
at the end of the current week.
At 17:00 every week on Friday.
It is interesting to note that
we use developed forms
and report templates in
a really effective project
management system.
In this situation, the templates
are not the list of tasks and work
performed in the first place, but
the list of problems that have
arisen for the reporting period,
for the week.
And it is understandable why, because
we have processes or
sub-processes, as we say, planning.
We have documents at the initiation
and planning stage that clearly
define what we should do,
when we should do, how we
should do and what will be
on the way out.
If we talk about the volume of work, the
composition of work, the tasks that we
solve for the reporting period, specifically
for the week, then this list
we already have.
If we force our performers,
employees, to list the
composition of the work, we
thus assume that our employees
have elements of schizophrenia
or amnesia.
We treat them disrespectfully.
We think they have 7 Friday a week
and they don't remember what they planned
yesterday or what they're going
to do today.
That is, we understand that here
the quality of management leaves
much to be desired.
In successful project management
systems, in successful organizations,
of course, in the dynamic reporting
template, weekly reporting, the
list of problems that arose during
the reporting period is
at the first place.
On the composition of the report
template we will return
when we consider the functional
area we call value
analysis or value management.
Now we will continue to consider
the organization of dynamic
reporting, which is usually
used in successful enterprises.
So, we are moving the report point
from Monday to Friday.
Suppose we have a working day up to 18
hours, we plan to provide reports
at 17 o'clock of that pool of our
resources or, more simply, those responsible
executives who, according to our
scheme, the documents of turnover
must provide reports to either
the administrator or the
project manager.
And these details are also prescribed in
the regulations on project management,
for example, in the position on project
management of the enterprise.
And these regulations are also fixed
in the configuration of the
tooling tools that we
use when managing projects,
for example, in Primavera or
in Microsoft Project or
in other tools.
And most of the information, most
of the content of the
reporting is generated
automatically by technologies and tools.
If the problems that arise
are low priority or, as we
say, routine, then here is
mainly the processing of these
problems with tools and only
a squeeze is given up, as we say.
That is, with minor deviations,
let's say, we see that over the
past period there have been
deviations on some tasks,
let's say, labor costs are
spent on two people an hour.
In our position, in project management,
this is not yet a critical situation, but
it is already an indicator of the
emergence of the problem.
And the system, the tool that
is used in our project management,
analysing this deviation itself,
will already signal
to the higher management,
say, the administrator,
that in such a job, for such
a period, there were deviations.
The administrator, having received
such an email, can react on his
own, but usually the system is
configured so that this
state, first of all, was indicated
by the responsible executor
for this work.
And the system sends a request
to the responsible contractor
or informs him of deviations.
At the same time, the copy is already
placed in the direct head of
this responsible executor in order
to indicate the sources
of the problems.
If the problem is more complex,
the system can be configured in such
a way that the system informs the
already responsible for the task
block or the head of a specific
executor, a specific
responsible executor for
this work.
The responsible person is given
a copy.
If the problem is even more complex,
the system will notify the
project administrator.
If it is even more complicated, then
the situation may already come
before informing the project manager.
Thus, we see that in principle,
a significant part of the work on
tracking the actual state
of affairs in the project we can
give to technology and tools.
And indeed, this is about 90% of all routine
work on control of the management of
the subject area, on control of the implementation
of the project.
And only important, significant
problems that arise during the
reporting period, they already require
direct intervention of certain managers.
And these problems are already
recorded in direct letters, reports,
which are posted at 17:00 on
Friday, say, to the project
administrator.
As a project manager, I will remind
you that we are primarily
considering complex, large-
scale projects.
The project manager does
not engage in routine reporting
control work, he is engaged
only in cases when
we really have very serious
problems.
The current control is carried out by
the project administrator.
At 17.00 he collects all reports,
once again performs an additional
ranking of problems, once again
considers how, by what methodology,
by what scheme he will respond to
the problems that have arisen.
And, as a rule, according to the
level of these problems or
priority, we can so say, the importance
of problems it comes.
It sends, for example, at 17.30 or at
18 o'clock, usually at 17.
30, sends appropriate instructions or
letters to the responsible
performers for the work where
problems arose.
To, say, 10.00 on Monday,
these responsible executives
proposed constructive
troubleshooting measures
to bring the project to
scheduled levels next
week or within two weeks.
This is the essence of the organization
of negative feedback in
successful enterprises.
In this dynamic reporting system,
it is very interesting to
consider the other side, namely
the psychological aspect of
organizing dynamic reporting.
Psychologists say that if a person
is loaded overnight with
some problem, he will work over
the problem at the subconscious,
unconscious level at night
in a dream.
And the dynamic reporting organizer
we have now considered has taken
into account these fundamental
psychological features
of a person.
And it gives the opportunity
to the responsible executor
who has problems during the
reporting period to get the
maximum time resource to the next
control point, where he must issue
a proposal for the measures
to eliminate the decisive problem
on Monday, 10.00.
The organizer of this whole process
provides very large resources.
That is, a person actually works
on the night of Friday to Saturday.
His brain, or he in general, can
consciously work on this problem
on Saturday, Saturday night
on Sunday, Sunday night and Sunday
night on Monday.
In fact, the resources that are
allocated for this is enormous.
But an ordinary person on the
outside can ask the question,
how do you disrespect the person
and where your concepts, weekends,
vacations and so on, and
you actually make a person
work overtime, over-normal.
But this can be given a normal
answer, and that is.
If you are a professional and took on
some work, and if you initially
agreed on a plan schedule, and in many
cases you gave yourself a proposal
on the composition of the work, on
the volume, on the time of execution,
and you did not perform it, and
there you have some problems,
then please try to eliminate them.
That is, we are appropriate to organize
the work in the team and this is the aspect
we use.
We treat people professionally
and hope that now this person
will remove the problem, and
in the future he will no longer
allow such a situation when
during the working week he has
allowed the problem, or even
generated it, then we organize
the dynamic reporting process
so that people work productively
and efficiently in fixed
working hours, during the
working week, and that they
really rest on weekends.
But in general it is understandable
that even aspects such as the organization
of weekly reporting, we must analyze
very carefully, taking into account
as much as possible all the factors
that affect this process.
And this process we must
build in such a way that, embedded
in the overall project management
process, it gives maximum
efficiency.
If we go further to the stage of
organization control of the management
of the subject area of the project, then
in those organizations where we see
high efficiency of project activities,
they are usually approached systematically.
And there this stage is organized
using the most modern technologies
on the one hand, on the other hand,
simple and relatively simple,
understandable technologies for
performers or responsible performers.
One of the most common technologies,
effective technologies,
is the technology, as we have already
considered it in part, structural
decomposition of works or work
breakdown structure, VBS.
The core of the management of
the subject area in modern business
conditions, in those
enterprises where it is implemented
successfully, is this VBS
tool, structural decomposition
of work.
We have already said where, at what
stage and in what form VBS
can appear.
If we approach the project in general and approach
it with an understanding that we are working
in the project by iteration, then we understand
that we are in the stage of initiation
or in the initial phase of the life
cycle of the project, we can make
a work breakdown structure,
a structural decomposition
of the work, block.
And with little accuracy, without a detailed
description of individual small
components of the work, namely,
block.
When we move into the final
part of the planning phase,
we must very carefully and carefully
with the accuracy that we have
planned, to write the composition
of the work, to decompose them
to the level to realize the overall
given accuracy of the implementation
of projects on critical
parameters.
At this stage, the work breakdown structure,
the structural decomposition
of the work is already
prescribed in detail.
The depth of the structure
of the work, the level of
detail depends on many factors.
For example, if the enterprise
is at a certain initial level
of maturity and the first steps
are only taken in the development
and implementation of a project management
system, then, as a rule, in
such a situation, the depth
of detailing the work breakdown
structure, structural decomposition
of the work is very
deep.
We detail the work to individual
small components.
Furthermore, if this system is
already starting to work, it
starts to function at its full
capacity, if we have human resources,
the team has mastered all this, and
if we already have the process going,
as we say, in a set-up way, then
we can remove part of the detail
and move to a not-so-level detail.
The detail of the structural
decomposition of the work depends on
the general corporate culture in the organization.
That is, if we have a high level of trust
between the members of the team, between
the members of the project
team, then we are forced to give
the structural decomposition
of the works with very large detail.
If we have a high level of trust,
then we can not give detail to individual
small works, but limit ourselves
to only blocks of work and
blocks of tasks.
In other words, if I know that this
job was taken by a professional,
responsible person, and I already have
experience working with him, he always
performed the work qualitatively,
on time and, as we say,
never put me in the way.
And if he is assigned a certain
job in this project, and he said
according to the plan that he
would finish the work on August
24, then I, in principle, can
not even control that person.
And I can not go down to a more
detailed level, but simply write
that this is a job, this
is a result on the output
with such parameters will
be August 24, and here the team
that performs this work
is, and the responsible
executor is.
Thus, we see that the level of detailed
structural decomposition of the work
is primarily influenced by those
parameters that we formulate in the
requirements for quality management
of projects, the accuracy of determining
parameters, the level and accuracy
of admissible risks.
That is, it is important for us in
general, where is the limit we can
not control, and thus we determine
the level of detailed structural
decomposition of the works.
The following slide is an example
of structural decomposition of works.
This is a table-based form of the structural
decomposition of works, and this table
may consist of the following content.
In the first column, we can mark the
number of work in order, then the
name of the work, the task, then
the number of the previous work or task.
The next column is the length of work.
The duration can be measured in
days, hours.
Next, it can be the start date, the end date.
The next column is very important
work costs.
We can calculate labor costs in
human days, human years for large
labor-intensive work, or in
human hours.
The next column is the cost
or cost of performing
the task, task or event.
The next column is the workforce
or human resources.
The next column is the priority of task
or work.
There may be other columns.
In general, structural decomposition
of works can be equipped
in such a way as to best
provide the service
level of the manager or
consumer of this tool of
structural decomposition
of works.
As more convenient for the user
of this tool, we provide
a general organization or general
view of this document.
In general, one of the basic
axioms of management is as follows.
We must provide documents in the
process of the project management
document, so that in form
and content it satisfies
or adequately suits
the consumer of this
document.
In order to prepare a document,
we must first of
all focus on who is the user
of the document.
But if we return to this example,
here we should consider some important
aspects in more detail.
Here is the third column, the
number of the previous task or task.
If we plan work in the project
consistently, that is, one work
is completed, the second
begins, and so on, then the third
column is nothing more than the
first column moved with a shift
to one position down.
That is, the second work as
the previous work is the
first, the third work
is the second, the fourth
- the third and so on.
Let us consider the general definition of the project.
The project is carried out within
the limits of resources and above
all time.
And in almost any project,
we can't use only consistent
planning of work.
Parallel planning
is required.
And the more work we have performed
in parallel, the more labor
and resources we need
to attract for management,
for project management.
The higher the professionalism
of the manager, the
more limited conditions he can work.
That is, the higher the professional
manages the project, the more he
has in the project of parallel work.
This fact is reflected in the structural decomposition
of the works in the third column.
That is, parallel works in the third
column are seen in such a way
that we see when the same number
of the predecessor is repeated
several times.
Duration of work.
On estimates of the duration of
work, we will still stop when
we consider the functional
area of managing project timing
parameters.
But I would like to say that here
is often used another column
that accompanies the length
column, namely the time reserve
column or time reserve
column.
We have already considered some
aspects of time reservation when
studying the manager's
personal limited resources.
The time reserve in structural
decomposition of works is very
often used when we deal with
innovative projects, new projects.
In those projects where the
element of novelty is very large,
and we have significant risks
to perform new types of work, and so on.
Then we should pay special
attention to reserve resources
in order to really
the project results, to
the project objectives
successfully.
The labor costs.
Labor costs are usually determined
by functional requirements
for a given job, event
or requirement for a product
or product or service
created.
The cost of work is determined
by the conditions in which the work
or task is implemented.
Labor costs also depend on the
productivity of labor, or the quality
of the labor resource, the quality
of the process, the quality
of the tools, the quality of
the service used in the
given work or task.
It is clear that if we
are to do the work using
a high-level professional
with high productivity, then
we can see the same work as
a high-level professional can
do, say, in two days, and a
professional with lower productivity
can do this work in not
two days, but in three
days, and sometimes in
five days.
Thus, we see that if this work is
done by one person, then in the first
case we get the labor
costs of two people a day,
and in the second case five
people a day.
Direct dependence on
labor productivity.
If we consider the project as a whole,
and we said that management, project
management is applied precisely to
increase dividends, increase profitability,
increase the project royals, then
it is clear that we should strive
to create such conditions in
which the productivity
of labor, the productivity
of the process are very and
very high.
This is all directly related to the
labor cost column.
In general, we must understand that
here when calculating this column,
different factors can affect differently.
As a rule, in the typical conditions
of modern Russia, when we perform
projects in a normal situation,
ordinary executives try
to lower the productivity
of labor, or, as we say,
to subdue a slump.
That is, if, say, a high-
performance resource can
do the job within two days,
then an ordinary employee
can say that he will do the
job for five days.
This situation is typical.
How in this case, however, to lead
to the fact that the person does not
dynamize us, that the person does
not engage not only in self-deception,
but also deception, and that we
lead the labor resource to a state
of more active, to a state
of truly professional work in
such a way that we do not have the
project delayed in time,
that we do not have the project delayed
in resources.
Often for these purposes is used
the so-called work day photography
technology.
However, this technology is not always effective.
Moreover, in many cases of design
activity this technology,
the application of this
technology can lead to
negative consequences.
I will briefly remind you of the essence of this technology.
If we have a labor resource,
specifically a person, claiming that
he can do this type of work
in one day or two days, and we
on the side assume that he does not
spend some time on these immediate
matters during the performance
of this work, but as we say spends
left, inefficiently, then then
an event is organized when the
whole working day, let us say
8 hours, with this person is a controller
or auditor, a chronometer with
a secondometer, and he
consistently records all the actions
that this employee performs
and chronometers them, up to the
point that he records when
the person came, when he sat
off the workplace, when the person
went to a break, when the person
went to the toilet and
returned.
In general, for almost any
person such a procedure is somewhat
degrading, that is, the very fact
that you will be controlled
and checked today, what
you do at work, how you do at
work, he is already a bit alarmering,
and it is understandable that
such a person inside has
some mood of distancing or
rejection, at least
this leads to negative consequences
in the relationship
within the team, in
the relationship between
the employee and the
manager.
On the other hand, if you look at what
the results of this technology
are, what the results of using
this tool, the timing of the
working day or the photograph
of the working day, then we
see that, as a rule, the result
is most often far from reality.
Why is it?
Because if the person who
will be controlled today
understands what it is about,
he can arrange a loading today,
during the whole day of chronometry
or audit in such a way that
he will be busy very intensely,
that he will do a giant volume
of work during that day,
that he will spin like
a protein in a wheel, he
can show a really monstrous
load, and so on.
And we understand that as a result
of this picture of the day we will
get data that, to say gently, does
not correspond to reality.
This is most often the case.
That is, on the one hand, we see
that in reality, especially in the
design activity, the result of the
use of the photo tool of the day
is heavily distorted.
On the other hand, we see
that after such events, relations
within the team become
more tense, more difficult.
This, in principle, contradicts
the design approach of one of
the fundamental axioms of project
management, which states that we,
creating a team, the project team
should strive to create such conditions
that the energy, labor costs
on internal interactions
between the team members
were minimal.
In this case, we see that this is
contrary to the axioms of management.
It is easier to record
the productivity of work and
adjust it toward increasing,
for example, by personal example.
Let's say we are considering
a project to implement a
new project management tool of
the same Microsoft Project.
And this tool is set up in a group
of managers, say, there are 10
people.
We initially conducted analysis, evaluation
of the calculation, compared them with the
experience of neighboring organizations,
enterprises, where this tool already
works successfully.
And according to our planned
indicators, the productivity
of this type of resources
of our managers should
increase, say, twice.
Suppose we are considering a specific
task of drawing up a package of
documents for the opening of a
medium-scale project in the field
of IT.
We have managers in this area,
they are professionals.
Before this, as a result
of a pre-project survey, we
recorded that managers
used certain technologies,
tools, for example,
Word, Excel.
After that, they will already
use the Microsoft Project
tool and part of the project management
system.
We will talk about it a little later.
Before the implementation
of the project, the productivity was
such that for a typical project
of such a direction, in such
conditions, for such a level of
professional our employees
they spend, say, two people a day
on preparing a full package of
documents for the opening
of the project.
Under the package of documents we can mean,
say, the charter of the project, the calendar
and network schedule, the resource
plan, the budget, the schedule of implementation
of the budget or the execution
of the budget.
Other documents will be discussed a little
later.
The entire package of documents,
which is usually attached
to the project opening
order, which is signed by
the CEO or the relevant
official.
After the implementation of the tool,
we hoped that the labor costs would be
one person alone.
But after the completion of this project,
we implemented the tool, it started
working, we come to our colleagues,
to the managers in this group.
They say that it doesn't work
one day.
Moreover, it became worse.
We started out all these documents
and so on to be made in 4 days.
Why is it?
Because the number of documents increased,
the detail increased, the
requirements for accuracy of calculations
increased and, accordingly,
labor costs increased.
Four people a day, here's what it
takes to make up a package
of documents for the project's
opening.
There were two days before this project.
In this situation, you can do
the following.
If I have experience in using
this tool, I can conduct the
event myself and organize
this event in such a way that
I can show my colleagues, managers,
how much time I really
need to prepare this package
of documents for
the project opening.